TYPES OF ML  
batch/offline - all data together, periodic update

online - batches of streaming data, continuous update on server
libraries used for online learning - river and vowpal wabbit
learning rate - how frequently you want to train your model in online learning

out of core learning - big dataset - cannot use batch learning, process in chunks
set up a detection system since this is tricky and risky. should have backups like db rollback

instance based model - memorization (knn - lazy, doesn't do anything till new data arrives)
generalisation - learning underlying concept - mathematical relationship bw i/p and o/p - make decision boundary 



CHALLENGES IN MACHINE LEARNING 

1.Data Collection - projects - Kaggle, companies use - apis or web scraping
2.Insufficient Data/Unlabelled Data
unreasonable effectiveness of large data - algo poor but model works well as large I/p data

3.Non representative data - only tells partial story. leads to sampling noise, sampling bias

4. Poor quality data. Data preprocessing is main - 60% of work
5. Irrelevant feature. garbage in garbage out 
6. Overfitting - fit only to training data not test 
7. Underfitting - fit not to training and not to test 
8. Software Integration 
9. Offline learning and deployment
10. Cost involved


REAL LIFE MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS
B2B applications

1. Retail - Amazon/Big Bazaar
get to know which products stock to increase during sale based on ml algo 
track buying behavior when asking for phone number - create profiles(type of customer, interest) if person buys fitness products then amazon gets money from gym guys to give customer phone number for gym to sms to person
beer diaper association rule mining 
2. Banking and Finance
past defaulter and profile of new customer compared to see whether to sanction loan
3. Transportation - OLA
why is price from a->b location higher on these apps
because demand(demand for taxis) is more supply(no of taxi driver in area) is less. but why would ola driver go to another far location to get a customer. This is why they have hotspots in the app(2x times normal amount would be given to the taxi driver)
4. Tesla
predictive maintenance(iot sensor)of robots manufacturing product 
5. Consumer Internet - Twitter
sentiment analysis on tweets of election
nm will win 70%
other - 30%
sell this information to big stock broker companies
they take money from rich people and put it on companies that are supporting nm eg reliance. buy shares of reliance at low prices
suppose nm wins -> reliance shares will go up 
reliance share prices increase as more people wanna buy. 
so now the stock companies can sell these shares at higher prices
profit  twitter and rich person




MACHINE LEARNING LIFE CYCLE DEVELOPMENT
1. Frame the problem properly(blueprint of what you gonna do, from where on what)
2. Gathering Data(from different sources, csv - most easy, apis - json format, website - webscraping, database - data warehouse)
3. Data preprocessing(remove duplicates, remove missing values, scale values etc)
4. Exploratory Data Analysis (Univariate analysis, Outlier detection, blnce ds)
5. Feature Engineering and selection
6. Model Training and Evaluation
7. Model Deployment(pickle, Heroku AWS, GCP)
8. Testing
9. Optimize(backup, load balancing, retrain frequency)

JOB ROLES 
Data Engineer - scrape data from sources 
OLTP - website's database(db)
OLAP - form this from OLTP to not expose db directly(dw)
create pipelines to extract data from dw

Data Analyst
cleaning 
organising
creating visualizations
producing and maintaining reports
collaborating with teams based on insights gathered
optimizing procedures

stats, python, analytical thinking, business acumen, strong comm skills, data mining, data visualization, data story telling, SQL, Excel

Data Scientist(main guy - fullstack)
Predictive Modelling

ML Engineer
deploy model(bridge gap bw devops and ml)
monitoring and maintenance of deployed models
maths, python, distributed systems, data model evaluation, software engineering systems and design



TENSORS 
a data structure - a container for numbers
0D tensor - 
a = np.array(4)
a.ndim() = 0

1D tensor(vector)
no. of axis = rank = dimension of tensor
a = np.array([1,2,3,4])
a. ndim() = 1
but vector dimension is no of elements in the tensor

ML - 0-5D
1D tensor - one row in a table
2D multiple rows in  table
3D image
4D images(a video)
5D multiple videos

VIRTUAL ENV 
anaconda navigator - control panel of anaconda

conda create --name ml
conda activate ml
conda install -c anaconda jupyter
conda install numpy
conda deactivate



FRAMING AN ML PROBLEM

1. business problem to machine learning(mathematical) problem
Netflix - wants to increase revenue
Churn rate - in a given period how many customers leave the platform
new customer adding rate > churn rate - company doesn't end
that means your job is to increase revenue by reducing churn rate

2. Type of problem 
see big picture -> identify customers who will leave the platform
stop him from leaving the platform
some plans of action:
- give instant discount
- identify his problem work on it (this will take many months so not a quick solution)
you can make out this is a supervised learning classification problem

but if you give every one same discount then it will result in loss to company 
generate a score for every person between 1-100 about how much he wishes to leave
means it is actually a regression problem 

3. See current solutions
see if you can use any of the factors from churn rate prediction model that has already been built

4. Getting the data
according to the problem decide what data will help you make the prediction
- watch time of person
- search but did not find
- content left in the middle
- clicked on recommendations

All these things you convey to data engineer and he will fetch for you from data warehouse

5. Metrics to measure

how to see if the model you made is right or not (guiding star)
define the metrics
- see which people actually left and your predictions

6. Online vs Batch
Online would be better as we need incoming data every second
many factors like holidays, lockdown will affect the data


7. Check Assumptions
check if the data you want is available
check if your data gathered will work for all geographic locations



UNDERSTANDING THE DATA
1. asking basic questions
2. EDA(univariate)
3. EDA(bivariate)
4. Pandas profiler


FEATURE ENGINEERING
1. Feature Transformation 
- missing value imputation 
- handling categorical features
- outlier detection
- feature scaling

2. Feature Construction

3. Feature Selection 

4. Feature Extraction


Feature Scaling
1. standardization
also called z-score normalization
(Xi - Xm)/standard deviation 
New dataset - 
mean = 0, sd = 1
geometric intuition - mean centering and scaling by factor of sd
2. normalization
Normalization is a technique often applied as a part of data preparation for machine learning. The goal of normalization is to change the values of numeric columns in the dataset to use a common scale, without distorting the difference in ranges of values of losing information

min-max scaling - bad for outliers

mean scaling - for centered data
max-abs-scaling - for sparse data
robust scaling - (xi - xmed)/IQR - robustscaler() class - robust to outliers

ask these questions
is feature scaling required?
normalization or standardization 
most will use standardisation 
norm 
min max - you should know min and max value for eg working with images min - 0, max - 255
